# basic-typescript-
TypeScript is a strongly typed, object oriented, compiled language. It was designed by Anders Hejlsberg (designer of C#) at Microsoft. TypeScript is both a language and a set of tools. TypeScript is a typed superset of JavaScript compiled to JavaScript. In other words, TypeScript is JavaScript plus some additional features.TypeScript supports other JS libraries. Compiled TypeScript can be consumed from any JavaScript code. TypeScript-generated JavaScript can reuse all of the existing JavaScript frameworks, tools, and libraries.  JavaScript is TypeScript. This means that any valid .js file can be renamed to .ts and compiled with other TypeScript files.  TypeScript is portable. TypeScript is portable across browsers, devices, and operating systems. It can run on any environment that JavaScript runs on. Unlike its counterparts, TypeScript doesn’t need a dedicated VM or a specific runtime environment to execute. TypeScript and ECMAScript  The ECMAScript specification is a standardized specification of a scripting language. There are six editions of ECMA-262 published. Version 6 of the standard is codenamed "Harmony". TypeScript is aligned with the ECMAScript6 specification. TypeScript and ECMAScript  TypeScript adopts its basic language features from the ECMAScript5 specification, i.e., the official specification for JavaScript. TypeScript language features like Modules and class-based orientation are in line with the EcmaScript 6 specification. Additionally, TypeScript also embraces features like generics and type annotations that aren’t a part of the EcmaScript6 specification.
